README.md, before:

# pyLaser
###### By AppliedEllipsis
Python Interface for  HTPOW (Cheap Chinese CNC Laser Engravers)

Right now, I'm still prototyping and writing this, the code will be cleaner in the near future.

**[Todo](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/blob/master/Todo.md)**

**[License](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)**

**[Source](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/blob/master/pyLaser.py)**

**Hardware**
* The laser this is developed against is a [cheap sub-$100, shipped, cnc 1000mw laser from China](https://www.wish.com/c/5852c8be0124c76a0a276aec).
* The laser enclosure is unbranded
* It is listed as HW V2, Firmware V2.4
* The software it uses is HTOPW.
  * I am not a big fan of this software as it seems to only do raster stuff, and isn't the most user friendly, but it is functional.
  * It also goes by the name of SuperCarver (software and laser engraver)
* It looks identical to some cheap chinese NEJE Lasers, but the protocol seems to be different
* Mine came with a bad power supply and EU converter, so I just use a USB power cable and connect it to a 2.4amp power source or powerbank (not very stable, as it seems to go into standby mode with the power bank)

![Image of Cheap Chinese Laser](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/raw/master/images/laser_cutter.jpg)

**How to Sniff traffic**
I used a freeware Serial Port Debugger called [SUDT AccessPort](http://www.sudt.com/en/ap/index.html), and would set it to listen to traffic on the com port of the laser, run a task, and save the output.  I would then sanitize the output using some regular expression replaces and look for patterns and trends in the data. A [parser](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/blob/master/parseAccessPort.py) was written to process and analyze the dumps easier.  Another [tool](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/blob/master/parseGrey2.py) was created to further process the grey data from samples. Run it against the output of the previous script and it will show coords and grey levels in int values.

######Greyscale
* I finally got greyscale to work
* See the results of a sample image (Nuke Cola and Fallout Boy from Fallout)

![Image of greyscale result... Nuke Cola and Fallout Boy from Fallout](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/raw/master/images/test-nukecola_results.png)

Tweaked the source image and tried again... Greyscale is not super impressive.

![Tweaked Image of greyscale result... Nuke Cola and Fallout Boy from Fallout](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/raw/master/images/test-nukecola3_results.png)

Some materials show grey better than others. It also depends on laser focus.  The test cardboard provided seems to work the best.

![Gradient of source and laser](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/raw/master/images/test-gradient2-results.png)

#####Notice
* I thought I screwed up my device when playing with the raster images, it was just I sent some cmds that changed speed to 0 and write speed to 99+
 * If you experience the device not moving or responding after resetting/calibrating and power cycling it, send new motor speed and write speed cmds to it to fix it.

Commit message:

New 2x256 gradient test image... there was no need to do such large tests.  This is good for testing a materials contrast ratio and speeds. Greyscale output on Leather is decent.  Result Image added.

README.md, after:

# pyLaser
###### By AppliedEllipsis
Python Interface for  HTPOW (Cheap Chinese CNC Laser Engravers)

Right now, I'm still prototyping and writing this, the code will be cleaner in the near future.

**[Todo](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/blob/master/Todo.md)**

**[License](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)**

**[Source](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/blob/master/pyLaser.py)**

**Hardware**
* The laser this is developed against is a [cheap sub-$100, shipped, cnc 1000mw laser from China](https://www.wish.com/c/5852c8be0124c76a0a276aec).
* The laser enclosure is unbranded
* It is listed as HW V2, Firmware V2.4
* The software it uses is HTOPW.
  * I am not a big fan of this software as it seems to only do raster stuff, and isn't the most user friendly, but it is functional.
  * It also goes by the name of SuperCarver (software and laser engraver)
* It looks identical to some cheap chinese NEJE Lasers, but the protocol seems to be different
* Mine came with a bad power supply and EU converter, so I just use a USB power cable and connect it to a 2.4amp power source or powerbank (not very stable, as it seems to go into standby mode with the power bank)

![Image of Cheap Chinese Laser](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/raw/master/images/laser_cutter.jpg)

**How to Sniff traffic**
I used a freeware Serial Port Debugger called [SUDT AccessPort](http://www.sudt.com/en/ap/index.html), and would set it to listen to traffic on the com port of the laser, run a task, and save the output.  I would then sanitize the output using some regular expression replaces and look for patterns and trends in the data. A [parser](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/blob/master/parseAccessPort.py) was written to process and analyze the dumps easier.  Another [tool](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/blob/master/parseGrey2.py) was created to further process the grey data from samples. Run it against the output of the previous script and it will show coords and grey levels in int values.

######Greyscale
* I finally got greyscale to work
* See the results of a sample image (Nuke Cola and Fallout Boy from Fallout)


Leather shows some good contrast at darker levels.  This was done with 20ms speed.
![Image of greyscale result on Leater at 20ms... Nuke Cola and Fallout Boy from Fallout](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/raw/master/images/test-nukecola_leather_20ms_results.png)

Below is on cardboard. 60ms

![Image of greyscale result on cardboard... Nuke Cola and Fallout Boy from Fallout](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/raw/master/images/test-nukecola_results.png)

Tweaked the source image and tried again... Greyscale is not super impressive on this cardboard material. 60ms

![Tweaked Image of greyscale result on cardboard... Nuke Cola and Fallout Boy from Fallout](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/raw/master/images/test-nukecola3_results.png)

Some materials show grey better than others. It also depends on laser focus.  The test cardboard provided seems to work the best.

![Gradient of source and laser](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/raw/master/images/test-gradient2-results.png)

Leather shows some good contrast at darker levels.  This was done with 40ms speed.

![Gradient of source and laser on leather 40ms](https://github.com/AppliedEllipsis/pyLaser/raw/master/images/gradient_2px_256_result.png)

Leather shows some good contrast at darker levels.  This was done with 60ms speed.

![Gradient of source and laser on leather 60ms](gradient_2px_256_result60ms.png)

#####Notice
* I thought I screwed up my device when playing with the raster images, it was just I sent some cmds that changed speed to 0 and write speed to 99+
 * If you experience the device not moving or responding after resetting/calibrating and power cycling it, send new motor speed and write speed cmds to it to fix it.
